Added release notes for Serverless 1.6.0 (#20666)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-rn-1-6-0.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/release-notes.adoc

[id="serverless-rn-1-6-0_{context}"]

= Release Notes for Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} Technology Preview 1.6.0
// add a version, e.g. Technology Preview 1.0.0

[id="new-features-1-6-0_{context}"]
== New features
* {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0 is available on {product-title} 4.3 and newer versions.
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Serving 0.13.1.

> * {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative `kn` CLI 0.13.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative `kn` CLI 0.13.1.
```

Reviewer: kn's 0.13.1 dot release is in progress (should be done upstream by today/tomorrow) and accordingly we'll do downstream.

====
* The *Subscription Update Channel* for new {ServerlessProductName} releases has been updated from `techpreview` to `preview-4.3`.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You must update your channel using the upgrade documentation to consume the latest {ServerlessProductName} version.
====
* {ServerlessProductName} now supports the use of `HTTP_PROXY`.
* {ServerlessProductName} now supports `HTTPS_PROXY` cluster-proxy settings.
+
[NOTE]
====
This does not include custom certificates.
====
* The `KnativeServing` CRD is now hidden from the Developer Catalog by default, so that only users with cluster administrator permissions can view it.
* Parts of the `KnativeServing` control plane and data plane are now deployed as highly available (HA) by default.
* Kourier is now actively watched and reconciles changes automatically.
* {ServerlessProductName} now supports use on {product-title} nightly builds.

[id="fixed-issues-1-6-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues
* In previous versions, the `oc explain` command did not work correctly. The structural schema of the `KnativeServing` CRD has been updated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0 so that the `oc explain` command now works correctly.

> * In previous versions, it was possible to create more than one `KnativeServing` CRD. Synchronous `KnativeServing` CRDs are now prevented in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0. Attempting to create more than one `KnativeServing` CRD now results in an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In previous versions, it was possible to create more than one `KnativeServing` CR. Multiple `KnativeServing` CRs are now prevented synchronously in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0. Attempting to create more than one `KnativeServing` CR now results in an error.
```

* In previous versions, {ServerlessProductName} was not compatible with {product-title} deployments on GCP. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.

> * In previous versions,  requests for `KnativeServing` CRDs without specifying an API group, for example, `oc get knativeserving -n knative-serving`, would cause errors. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In previous versions,  requests for `KnativeServing` CRs without specifying an API group, for example, `oc get knativeserving -n knative-serving`, would occasionally cause errors. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.
```

* Due to the ingress migration from Service Mesh to Kourier that occured in {ServerlessProductName} 1.5.0, orphaned VirtualServices were able to potentially remain on the system. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0, orphaned VirtualServices are automatically removed.

[id="known-issues-1-6-0_{context}"]
== Known issues
* In {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0, if a cluster administrator uninstalls {ServerlessProductName} using the uninstall procedure provided in the documentation, the *Serverless* dropdown will still be visible in the *Administrator* perspective of the {product-title} web console, and the *Knative Service* resource will still be visible in the *Developer* perspective of the {product-title} web console.
A user will still be able to create Knative services using this option, however these Knative services will no longer work for the deployment.
+
To prevent {ServerlessProductName} from being visible in the {product-title} web console, the cluster administrator must delete additional CRDs from the deployment after removing the Knative Serving CR.
+
Cluster administrators can remove these CRDs by entering the following commands:
+
----

> $ oc delete crd configuration.serving.knative.dev

Reviewer 3: ```adoc
----
$ oc get crd -oname | grep -E '(serving|internal).knative.dev' | xargs oc delete
----
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/release-notes.adoc

[id="serverless-rn-1-6-0_{context}"]

= Release Notes for Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} Technology Preview 1.6.0
// add a version, e.g. Technology Preview 1.0.0

[id="new-features-1-6-0_{context}"]
== New features
* {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0 is available on {product-title} 4.3 and newer versions.

> * {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Serving 0.13.1.

Reviewer 4: Consider simplifying the tense for the items in this list. I think "{ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Serving 0.13.1." might work just as well.

* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative `kn` CLI 0.13.1.
* {ServerlessProductName} has been updated to use Knative Serving Operator 0.13.1.

> * The `serving.knative.dev` API group has now been fully deprecated, and is replaced by the `operator.knative.dev` API group.

Reviewer 4: no comma

+

> You must complete the steps described in the {ServerlessProductName} 1.4.0 release notes, related to updating from the `serving.knative.dev` API group to the `operator.knative.dev` API group, before you can upgrade to the latest version of {ServerlessProductName}.

Reviewer 4: Are these steps also included in the updating section?

s/described/that are described

maybe s/notes, related to updating from the `serving.knative.dev` API group to the `operator.knative.dev` API group,/notes that replace the `serving.knative.dev` API group with the `operator.knative.dev` API group

Author: They are not, but I think it's because they've only applied for a couple of releases.
@markusthoemmes should we add them to the upgrade section too I guess?

Reviewer 2: adding to the upgrading section sgtm.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> This change causes unspecified commands, such as `oc get knativeserving`, to become unreliable and not always work correctly.

Reviewer 4: Will you please clarify "unspecified?" I don't think this is going to translate well.

Author: I think what we mean here is commands that don't have arguments / flags specified.
@markusthoemmes can you confirm what would be the best wording for what these actually are?

Reviewer 2: Unspecified means: No fully qualified APIGroup + kind. `oc get knativeserving.operator.knative.dev` is fully qualified. `oc get knativeserving` isn't.

> After you have completed the upgrade to {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0, you will need to remove the old CRD to fix this issue.

Reviewer 4: ~you have completed the~

s/you will need to/you must

You can remove the old CRD by entering the following command:
----

> $ oc delete crd knativeservings.serving.knative.dev

Reviewer 4: I would include this step in the update procedure.

Author: We have an additional issue to include this as part of the uninstall section that I will be working on today.

----
====
* The *Subscription Update Channel* for new {ServerlessProductName} releases has been updated from `techpreview` to `preview-4.3`.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> You must update your channel using the upgrade documentation to consume the latest {ServerlessProductName} version.

Reviewer 4: s/using/by following

s/consume/use

> ! consume v
Do not use when a simpler term such as “use” would be more appropriate. Use only to mean “use up.”

====
* {ServerlessProductName} now supports the use of `HTTP_PROXY`.
* {ServerlessProductName} now supports `HTTPS_PROXY` cluster-proxy settings.
+
[NOTE]
====

> This does not include custom certificates.

Reviewer 4: Please clarify "this."

====

> * The `KnativeServing` CRD is now hidden from the Developer Catalog by default, so that only users with cluster administrator permissions can view it.

Reviewer 4: no comma

* Parts of the `KnativeServing` control plane and data plane are now deployed as highly available (HA) by default.

> * Kourier is now actively watched and reconciles changes automatically.

Reviewer 4: What changes?

Author: @markusthoemmes can you clarify this please, i.e. what watches Kourier and it reconciles changes between what and what?

* {ServerlessProductName} now supports use on {product-title} nightly builds.

[id="fixed-issues-1-6-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

> * In previous versions, the `oc explain` command did not work correctly. The structural schema of the `KnativeServing` CRD has been updated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0 so that the `oc explain` command now works correctly.

Reviewer 4: s/has been/was

Please simplify all cases.

* In previous versions, it was possible to create more than one `KnativeServing` CR. Multiple `KnativeServing` CRs are now prevented synchronously in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0. Attempting to create more than one `KnativeServing` CR now results in an error.

> * In previous versions, {ServerlessProductName} was not compatible with {product-title} deployments on GCP. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.

Reviewer 4: Please expand the first use of GCP.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean by this @kalexand-rh ?

Reviewer 4: I'd say "Google Cloud Platform"

> // * In previous versions,  requests for `KnativeServing` CRs without specifying an API group, for example, `oc get knativeserving -n knative-serving`, would occasionally cause errors. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.

Reviewer 4: s/requests/requesting

s/would occasionally cause/occasionally caused

// Move this fixed issue to 1.7.0 release notes once these are created and it's confirmed as fixed

> * In previous releases, the Knative Serving webhook would crash with an out of memory error if the cluster had more than 170 namespaces. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.

Reviewer 4: s/would crash/crashed

* In previous releases, {ServerlessProductName} did not automatically fix an {product-title} route that it created if the route was changed by another component. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.

> * In previous versions, deleting a `KnativeServing` CR would occasionally cause the system to hang forever. This issue has been fixed in {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0.

Reviewer 4: s/would occasionally cause/occasionally caused

I'd remove "forever."

> * Due to the ingress migration from Service Mesh to Kourier that occured in {ServerlessProductName} 1.5.0, orphaned VirtualServices were able to potentially remain on the system. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0, orphaned VirtualServices are automatically removed.

Reviewer 4: s/were able to potentially remain/sometimes remained

[id="known-issues-1-6-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * In {ServerlessProductName} 1.6.0, if a cluster administrator uninstalls {ServerlessProductName} using the uninstall procedure provided in the documentation, the *Serverless* dropdown will still be visible in the *Administrator* perspective of the {product-title} web console, and the *Knative Service* resource will still be visible in the *Developer* perspective of the {product-title} web console.

Reviewer 4: s/using/by using

s/will/is

> A user will still be able to create Knative services using this option, however these Knative services will no longer work for the deployment.

Reviewer 4: Maybe

> Although you can create Knative services by using this option, these Knative services do not work.

+

> To prevent {ServerlessProductName} from being visible in the {product-title} web console, the cluster administrator must delete additional CRDs from the deployment after removing the Knative Serving CR.

Reviewer 4: Is this described in the relevant assembly, too?

Author: It will be - I have a separate issue for this as mentioned above.
